---
layout: post
title:  "SATJUG in 2018!"
date:   2018-03-06 23:00:00 -0600
categories: announcement
---
# Meeting Notes
At this meeting we had a great discussion on the future of the SATJUG and what the group would like to focus on.

## Topics and Presentations
The consensus amongst the group was to prefer hands-on and real-world examples and demos in favor of high level 
abstract topics.  For example, rather than just talking about what Java 9 offers, give a practical demo on how someone 
would use the feature(s).  The group was also in favor of having sessions that span over the course of multiple 
meetings if warranted.

### Topic Suggestions
* Walk through on public/private cloud solutions such as AWS, Azure, or GCP
* Industry trends and tooling (best practices)
* Agile methodologies
* Working with (in?) a distributed team
* Docker and containers
* CICD by example
* CICD and reporting for polygot applications
* GitHub, GitLab, or BitBucket
* Functional programming in the real world
* Cyber Security
* Java 9 and jigsaw
* Angular
* Spring Boot examples
* Microservices

# Meeting Schedule and Venue
The group felt that meeting once a month is a good cadence and was not in favor of going to a quarterly schedule.  
There was some support for meeting more frequently if the content was there and there was a need.  One example that was 
given was the SharePoint group would have Saturdays in conjunction with their normal meetings when they had topics and 
attendance.

Regarding location, the group agreed that while New Horizons was sufficient they would be very opened to trying a 
different location.  Geekdom was mentioned numerous times as an attractive location followed by Rackspace's Factory.
Other locations that were mentioned which would need to be researched were UTSA, Central Library downtown, and the 
Eilan near 1604 and I-10.


# Community
The group felt that we're lacking in social engagements and would like to explore options before/after the meeting.  
Some examples that were thrown out were:

* reserving an additional 30 minutes after the session for Q&A on any topic (office hours so to speak)
* reserving the first 20-30 minutes for lighting talks

The group was very much in favor of extending the meeting time to 90 minutes and felt that 60 minutes is a little 
crammed.

# Communications
Slack is the preferred communication channel.  MeetUp is still a good avenue however the group prefers to use Slack.
Reviving the old Google Group or going to a different communication was thrown out but unanimously frowned upon.

# Misc
The idea of a hack-a-thon was thrown out but the general vibe of the group was that it would be a lot of work and we're
not ready to take that on at this time.

There was a proposal to try and do an "unconference" and partner with the Python, Kuebernetes, and other user groups
here in town..